Changes in Version 2.1-2

  o Moved Data-Administration.R to inst/notes

  o fixed NAMESPACE problems

  o added registration of C functions


Changes in Version 2.1-1

  o Added a NAMESPACE.


Changes in Version 2.1-0

  o Removed dependencies on e1071 and scatterplot3d (the latter replaced by 
    cloud() from lattice). 

  o mlbench.corners() has been renamed to mlbench.hypercube().

  o New function mlbench.simplex() by Manuel Eugster and Sebastian Kaiser.

  o Bugfixes in the bayesclass() methods for ringnorm and threenorm 
    submitted by Julia Schiffer. 


Changes in Version 2.0-0

  o Changed license of complete package to GPL-2.

  o Recompressed all data sets using xz.

  o Added examples to all help pages.

  o Added info about UCI repository to mlbench.waveform.Rd.


Changes in Version 1.1-6

  o Improve CITATION.


Changes in Version 1.1-5

  o Fixed Rd bug and renamed README to LICENSE.


Changes in Version 1.1-4

  o Fixed documentation of S3 objects.


Changes in Version 1.1-3

  o Bugfix: data sets that are loaded using R code did not close the
    corresponding connections.


Changes in Version 1.1-2

  o New data set Zoo.


Changes in Version 1.1-2

  o Converted the 'chas' columns of BostonHousing2 to a factor.

  o Added a corrected version of PimaIndiansDiabetes as PimaIndiansDiabetes2.
 
  o Added correct citation for UCI repository in various places.


Changes in Version 1.1-1

  o Add '...' argument to as.data.frame() methods for consistency
    with R 2.4.0 or later.


Changes in Version 1.1-0

  o New artificial classification problems mlbench.shapes() and
    mlbench.corners()

  o Added corrected version of Boston housing data (thanks to
    John Maindonald). 

	
Changes in Version 1.0-1

  o Minor fixes in BostonHousing.Rd.


Changes in Version 1.0-1

  o Fixed a Bug in the waveform function (thanks to Karsten Lübke).

  o Added a "ZipData: No" to the DESCRIPTION file.

  o All data files are now in compressed format.
  

Changes in Version 1.0-0

  o New function mlbench.smiley().

  o Version 1.0-0 is not really different from the previous release
    (version 0.5-10), but we decided that it is stupid to have a
    version number smaller than 1.0 for a package that is stable and
    useful.

